Document archiving of important jobs (#6760)
os-autoinst/openQA: docs/UsersGuide.asciidoc

  section of <<GettingStarted.asciidoc#_configuration,the web UI configuration>>.
  Jobs outside of any group use the limits configured in the `[no_group_limits]`
  section of the web UI configuration.
* The <<Installing.asciidoc#auditing,Auditing>> section explains the cleanup of
  the audit log.

[id="archiving"]
=== Automatic archiving of old jobs ===

Archiving of important jobs can be enabled:
[source,ini]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[archiving]
## Moves results of important jobs which are preserved during the cleanup
## to OPENQA_ARCHIVEDIR (/var/lib/openqa/archive/ by default)
#archive_preserved_important_jobs = 0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> When archiving is enabled important job results are moved to the archive
> directory when they reach their expiration (instead of being deleted). This
> happens as part of the normal cleanup. In the web UI an icon indicates that
> a job was archived. As only important jobs are archived the same retention
> periods apply.

Reviewer: You should double-check the code whether that's really how it works. I think it works more like the comment about the config setting already insinuates. Out of my head I think this is how archiving behaves:

```suggestion
When enabled, archiving applies to important jobs. More specifically, when an
important job reaches the expiration configured for regular job results - but is
not deleted because it is important - it will be archived. This means moving its
results to `OPENQA_ARCHIVEDIR`. This allows configuring high storage durations
for important job results provided there is enough disk space on
`OPENQA_ARCHIVEDIR`.
```

Reviewer: And if I'm correct we should probably split the sentence with the `,` and `-` into two smaller sentences.

Author: I made an effort to trace the code in order to document it. If normal and important retention limits are mixed up I don't understand where the bug is. Maybe best to file a ticket and fix it first, because this will be confusing for users of the feature.

Author: For reference I was checking especially t/14-grutasks.t, lib/OpenA/Task/Job/Limit.pm and lib/OpenQA/Schema/Result/JobGroups.pm - maybe extending the unit test would be the easiest to confirm the behavior.

Reviewer: I checked the code again. To me it looks like it would behave as in my description except that the cleanup/retention of logs is relevant (and not the cleanup/retention of results).

The limit task calls `limit_results_and_logs` which returns jobs to be archived via `$preserved_important_jobs`. This variable is populated by `_find_expired_jobs` which uses the condition `-and => [{t_finished => $timecond}, {t_finished => {'>=' => $important_timestamp}}]` to assign jobs to that variable that *newer* than the expiration date of important jobs (but still older than the expiration date of regular jobs).

Emphasis is on *newer* because this contradicts the wording "instead of being deleted" in your change because jobs "being deleted" would be *older* than the expiration date. Or am I right now confused on how these queries with timestamps work?

---

> If normal and important retention limits are mixed up I don't understand where the bug is.

I wouldn't consider this a bug, just unintuitive/complex behavior. (And this *is* how we (actually mainly @okurz) wanted this to work avoiding the introduction of yet another distinct retention value for archiving (which is how I would have done it for the sake of simplicity). This is at least how I remember it. I also wouldn't say limits are "mixed up". Using the cleanup thresholds in archiving (which is obviously a different action than cleanup) is of course counterintuitive and leads to cleanup and archiving being entangled with each other and therefore more complexity. But I don't think we should go into this discussion from the past again.)

---

> For reference I was checking especially t/14-grutasks.t, lib/OpenA/Task/Job/Limit.pm and lib/OpenQA/Schema/Result/JobGroups.pm - maybe extending the unit test would be the easiest to confirm the behavior.

The check

```
ok -e $filename, 'results of important job preserved if only exceeding normal retention period';
```

followed by

```
is $job->archived, 0, 'job not archived yet';
```

does *not* mean it is like in your description. The job is just asserted to be not archived because archiving is not enabled at this point. And in a subsequent test which actually runs with archiving enabled we have the check

```
is $job->archived, 1, 'job flagged as archived';
```

for the same job. That makes it look like my description is in-line with the test.

  section of <<GettingStarted.asciidoc#_configuration,the web UI configuration>>.
  Jobs outside of any group use the limits configured in the `[no_group_limits]`
  section of the web UI configuration.
* The <<Installing.asciidoc#auditing,Auditing>> section explains the cleanup of
  the audit log.

[id="archiving"]
=== Automatic archiving of old jobs ===

Archiving of important jobs can be enabled:
[source,ini]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[archiving]
## Moves results of important jobs which are preserved during the cleanup
## to OPENQA_ARCHIVEDIR (/var/lib/openqa/archive/ by default)
#archive_preserved_important_jobs = 0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Currently the primary use case is keeping important jobs in a dedicated
> directory once they expire. Results of such jobs are periodically moved to
> `OPENQA_ARCHIVEDIR`. In the web UI an icon indicates that a job was archived.
> 
> Note that retention periods are the same as for important logs and archiving
> is not reversible.

Reviewer 2: The above comment in line 1448 reads nicely but here it's a bit convoluted. The first sentence says "keeping important jobs […] once they expire" which is contradicting. And results are not really moved periodically but when the according cleanup is triggered. How about the following to make it clear that the alternatives are deletion or archiving:

```suggestion
When archiving is enabled then job results that reach their expiration but are
considered important are moved to the archive. In the web UI an icon
indicates that a job was archived. As only important jobs are considered
for archiving the retention periods for important job results and logs also
apply here.
```
